---
layout: post
title: "Content Rules for Automation"
date: 2015-12-3 16:32:21
excerpt: >
 Making a navigation menu was one of the first things that I learned to make using only HTML, CSS, and JavaScript. Seems simple, right? Well, I was on day two of learning web-development.In actuality, it was something that was way over my head.
---

Set some new standards for your copy writing workflow.

The traditional workflow is to write one article, then reproduce it with a new intro, conclusion, and location. Oh, wait, I wasn't supposed to actually say that out loud, was I?
I mean we are all trying to accommodate Google, right? So we abide these rules and and end-up forcing our copywriters write the same article over and again. Well to make this actually work,
some things need to happen.

1) Give your writers relevant persona information
2) Give them a copy of your style guide and make it a thorough one. Don't expect them to be able to assume anything!
3) MAKE your writers read other relevant copy so they can model it after something. Make them do this first and then give them the assignment.
4) Call your writers and see how they are doing. They aren't robots, they have valuable input on the process that may be able to help you and your company.
5) Teach them about the goal of each piece of content. I.e. clue them on the funnel they know more than likely no nothing about, give them buisiness objectives to reach
tell them about your inbound methodology. In short, give them as much relevant info as you can.

Why do all of this? Because your content is SUPER important. Content is king right now! So treat it like the king. It should be your top priority so your writers
are actually one of your most valuable resources right now. Meaning, they need to be treated well and be given all of the information you can give them to make their
job perfectly clear.

Okay, so you have a ton of clients who all have the same deal going on. You need to write some landing page copy for the sale
and the good news is that you have freelance copy writers on hand to help you do it! Problem solved, right? NO. The problem with
many agencies is that they only have 5-10 freelancers on hand at any time. That means that each writer is writing around 5-10 versions of the
same article. The traditional formula is to have that writer change up the intro and conclusion for each version and update any location details.
Don't forget, they also have to look up each location, find landmarks to mention, get all the info correct, and copy-edit their article around 3 times
once it is finished. Then, you'll have someone on your staff edit it again for you. Then you, as the manager or marketing specialist, will publish it on the site.
That's great for you but terrible for your writers. Do them a huge favor and stop making them do this!


The problem with finishing the task this way is that your writers are getting burnt out. They have long ago stopped caring about your client and their copy.
They no longer care about giving each one of your client individualized wording or proper fact-checking. Why? It's not because they are lazy. It's because they
are being forced to do a monotonous task and monotonous tasks just naturally leads to disinterest. The task is no longer creative, it is formulaic and incredibly boring.
More than that, once a writer has to do more than 5 of these at a time, they begin to skim rather than give your assignment the attention it deserves.

I can tell you from personal experience that each article I write for a client or franchise takes at least an hour and a half to write not including fact checking or copy editing.
And my managers tell me to slow down at work! So that's about 3 hours for each article no matter the length. Seriously, a longer article takes me about the same time to copy edit as a shorter one because
both require the same amount of attention to detail. Around the 3rd article I edit, I stop caring. The same goes for when I'm the one copy editing these articles. Around the 10th time I read the same repeated phrase
it's almost as if I lose the ability to read carefully. My mind goes numb instead and I effectively become useless to my manager.
So what' the solution? Hire more writers. Get more team members in your department to contribute to copy-editing. Don't leave it to just one person on your team. Delegate the task to your interns as well. Aferall, this copy is important to you and your client so why would you trust it
to someone who is going to become a zombie after a certain count or hour of work.

Another solution is to assign each a writer one-three clients rather than one sale. That way, they will AT LEAST have different topics to write about and that will help
fuel their interest and motivation.

I'm going to end by saying you need to pay your writers more as well. They deserve more than a fraction of a dollar per word and more than $15 per article. That's me being conservative by the way. I really think that writers deserve $50 per article considering how many hours they put into the work. This is not minimum wage level work. It is work done by a highly educated being with a incredibly valuable skill that not everyone has!

My CEO once tried to write my articles for me and it was pure crap!
